this is august 25th 2020.
the whole world has convened on the
internet once again
to re-examine the question of why
police violence in the united states
is so uniquely awful
and the easy answer is racism
and then the solutions to that problem
become
even more facile by the moment as this
is meditated upon
in the mainstream media ah training
training training will solve the problem
is there an essay section
of the police application form in which
they could write a few short paragraphs
on why they are not racist or the
importance of not being racist do you
think
do you think that would solve the
problem racism
is a profound problem in the united
states of america
but it can also be profoundly
distracting
the quality of justice
the professionalism of police forces
what can you do to increase
the quality of the justice system
as a whole what can you do
to improve the professionalism the
compassion
the caring nature of police
as individual people it's not going to
be something as simple
as adding an essay question or adding a
unit of training
on racism and cultural sensitivity
this use of the concept
of training as if these
really profound personal character
traits or something that could be
imbued from a bureaucratic checklist i
mean like
are are you sure you gave them training
to make sure they're not racist are you
sure you're
in the training to make sure they're
compassionate or professionally
there are some technical skills that you
can just
test for and you can achieve through
training does somebody know how to tie a
necktie
okay does somebody know the correct
procedure for how to
pull the cord on a parachute if the
airplane crashes
right you know there are some things
that you can put on a bureaucratic
checklist but with policing
what we're mostly concerned with one
is filtering the type of person
who would apply for the job who would be
accepted into the job
and who would keep the job who would not
quit to move on to something else
because it doesn't suit their character
this is one one probably the most
fundamental most profoundly important
question of how to improve the quality
of policing is to improve the
selection of who becomes a cop and
the retention who remains a cop as
opposed to who decides hey
this is not for me i by my temperament
by my character i'm not
most obvious um the second
is to recognize the profound effect
of the process of education the process
of professionalization which is
something i think we're reluctant to
face up to and then very closely
parallel the third and final point
is to recognize the way the job itself
also
profoundly changes your character traits
this is something we don't
we don't like to think about in this
culture
right what if i had joined the army
at age 21 what kind of person
would i be today different
it's hard for me to say precisely how
different i'd be
but the differences in my character
would not come from a bureaucratic
checklist of the training that i was to
receive
right what if i had become a police
officer
at age 21 what kind of man would i be
today
different and just thinking it through
scares me
all right there are many aspects to my
character and you don't see
all of them here on youtube all right i
am in many ways
a kind and caring and gentle and loving
person
not just with my daughter not just with
my girlfriend not everybody sees that
there's another side
of my character that's tough i had
police trying to intimidate me here here
in canada
just a few months ago and
i was hard to intimidate and i've had
police uh
trying to extort me for money and take
me to the police station
in third world countries in southeast
asia places like laos and cambodia
i've you know i've had people threaten
me and try to kill me in different
circumstances
there's there's a certain side of my
character that you know
which side of my character would develop
if i had become
a police officer now as soon as we just
imagine this the effect on what kind of
person i would become over a period of
say 10 years
just thinking that through you realize
how
unbelievably trivial the question is
of whether or not you received cultural
sensitivity and racism
training as part of your induction if it
was on the checklist
oh yeah along with you know learning how
to use a chokehold
along with these terrible things the
police are given and training oh yeah
today the unit is on cultural
sensitivity and racism and maybe the
police have to sit down and write an
exam
at the end of that unit to show they can
write out a few sentences agreeing with
the sentiment
that racism is terrible thing and it's
tremendously important to please not be
racist
it's hard for us to face up to the
extent to which
working at starbucks made us who we are
now
i used to work at starbucks it's hard
for us to face up to the fact that
the way university changes
our character may have much
less to do with the explicitly stated
content of the courses than it has to do
with the
implicit structure of authority in the
institution
and the feelings we have as we gain
our own small measure of authority as we
ourselves become
professionalized right
someone who goes to medical school
what do they learn sure you can you can
get out the index
of the medical school textbook and list
off
all the things they learn but implicitly
they're learning what it is to be a
doctor they're learning what it is to be
an authority figure
they're probably consciously and
unconsciously starting to imitate the
behaviors of the professors
or senior doctors they're gaining a
notion of what it is they're entitled to
who it is they have to listen to and who
it is they can tell to shut up
right those things can be much more
dangerous and terrifying
in a hospital those authoritarian
attitudes than racism
pure and simple of course racism within
hospitals huge problem
right but if what you want is a high
level of professionalism
care compassion humility from doctors
right you can look at the university
education
that produces doctors and see that this
is both
selecting for certain character traits
who who applies to become doctor it's
retaining
certain character traits who remains a
doctor as opposed to who quits and
decides this is not for them they're
going to presume to pursue another line
of work
and then also it's cultivating and
transforming these people
in professionalizing them into playing
this role and then once they have that
role
the frustrations they deal with
how would i have coped with the
frustrations
of being a medical doctor how would i
have coped with the frustrations of
being a police officer
again and again over years i can
recognize
just thinking it through i can recognize
this would have profoundly transformed
my character
today now in my 40s as very much a fully
formed
philosophically complete human being
it's very easy for me to say today oh
i would never do the terrible things
these police officers are doing
never never and if i were a medical
doctor
i would never treat someone else the
terrible way this or that medical doctor
treated me that is easy for me to say in
my 40s
like starting from today and i even
think it's true
if i became a doctor today or police
officer today
but if i had gone back
if if at age 21
i'd become a police officer what kind of
man would i be at age 31
that's much more difficult to reason
through and i think all of you
in the audience if you just just let
yourself think it through
i think you can recognize that there is
a sense in which
you might have become one of these
barbarians you might have become one of
these terrible
police officers you might have more in
common with the worst medical doctor
you've ever had in your life just think
of the most despicable awful person you
ever dealt with in a hospital
using their little bit of authority to
make your life miserable
um these terrible authority figures you
might have grown into someone who
resembled them
right not because of what's actually
written on the exam
not because of the formal criteria of
what you're supposed to be learning in
that training program
but due to these other implicit factors
the process of professionalization and
then frankly
the brutalization that these people
endure
because it is brutalizing for the cops
and they go on to brutalize others
i think it is brutalizing for many
doctors and nurses that's why they're
such awful people
and they go on to brutalize off others
i've never
seen never seen such cruelty as i've
seen in a hospital
amongst people whose job is to take care
of pregnant mothers
and newborn babies all day all right
i but i don't dehumanize them i can
relate
and i think each and every one of those
doctors and nurses back when they were
12 years old
got this idea into their heads that they
wanted to be a nurse that they wanted to
be a doctor
and in some ways they had no idea where
that dream was leading them where it
would take them what disappointments
what resentments they'd have
and many of those disappointments and
resentments they take out on their
patients
who show up pregnant and so on and so
forth i mean it's i think you'll
you know and obviously people become
police officers they might have made
that decision at age 8
or age 12 and they might have really had
no idea
what kind of brutalization what what
this would mean
for the man they would later become or
the woman they would later become
right so how can
this change i had
various responses to my earlier
suggestion
that what we fundamentally need to do is
to combine
the role of police officer with the role
of school teacher
in some cases if that can't work as a
second best bet
you could combine the work of police
officer with someone who takes care of
the elderly
in old folks home to re-imagine
redefine and recreate the role
of police officer as being fundamentally
one of being an educator one of being a
kind and caring social servant
if you had police working on the streets
with a gun dealing with homeless people
and drug addicts and parking tickets
all those things for three months and
then they have to stop
cool down and teach school children
for three months in the same community
some of those children their parents or
grandparents
are the drug dealers or the drug addicts
for one thing a lot of these tough guys
a lot of these guys who want to be thugs
on the job while wearing a badge and
playing the role of police officer
they would quit the role of being a
police officer it would no longer
attract these would-be tough guys as
soon as it was clear
hey if you want to play this role if you
want to take on this responsibility
if you want to earn this paycheck it's
not enough
to be a tough guy you have to be a
person of
extraordinary moral character someone
who is
caring compassionate kind and humble
you have to be not just an enforcer but
also an educator
you have to be able to handle both sides
of human nature you have to be able to
deal with someone who's a violent
drunk once in a while some policemen
deal with you have to deal with parking
tickets all those annoyances
and guess what you have to switch back
and forth on a three-month schedule
and then direct your time to being
caring and kind and patient
to children all right a whole lot of
people
who are police officers now would quit
even if you doubled the salary they
would quit
and what kind of person would you start
to attract
for one thing school teachers who find
that job repetitive and boring
and i think there are a lot of school
teachers
who have the discipline of mind to deal
with a child
who's having a tantrum and who could by
the same token
deal very well with a drug addict
with a violent drunk with domestic
violence disputes
with the myriad problems that police
officers are expected to endure
not just with a high level of
professionalism
but also with kindness and compassion
these are my conclusions after the
shooting
of jacob blake in
kenosha wisconsin
the silent witnesses to the unfolding of
this history
are the ghosts of the indigenous people
of kenosha
when this news came out the first thing
i thought of
the first thing i looked up was the
question of why
is it named kenosha it was obviously to
me an algonquian name
either from ojibwe cree or closely
related language
who were those people and where are they
now
it's important to care about racism
it's important to care about the history
of slavery it's important to care about
professionalism compassion and police
services it's important to care about
the quality of justice
it's also important to care about the
history
of genocide i'd like to encourage each
and every one of you
to take a moment now to look into the
history of kenosha
why it is that the politics of kenosha
we're talking about today
have entirely to do with black versus
white
with no voice for with no presence of
the indigenous people the people who are
the reason why
it's called kenosha at all